# Building Libraries #

# Useful Commands #
__touch__: The touch command is the easiest way to create new, empty files. It is also used to change the *timestamps* [i.e., the date and time of the most recent access and modification] on existing files and directories. 
Syntax:
```
touch [options] <filename(s)>
```

__<Command 1> && <Command 2>__: shell executes first command, if it returns successful [0] exit code, executes second command
E.G. make && ./memgrind

__ls__: Command that lists directory contents of files and directories.    

__ls -l__: List with long format - shows permissions, etc.    

__chmod__: [change mode] To change access permissions.     

__man__: An interface to the online reference manuals. 
Syntax: 
```
man <command>
```
Returns information on what the command does, how to use it, et al.

__chown__: Change the file owner and group. 

__more__: Filter for paging through text one screenful at a time. 
Syntax:
```
more [options] <filename>
```

__less__: opposite of __more__. Allows backward movement in the file as well as forward movement. Also, less does not have to read the entire input file before starting, so with large input files it starts up faster than text editors like vi. 

__cat__: Has three related functions with respect to text files - displaying them, combining copies of them, and creating new ones. 
Syntax:
```
cat [options] [filenames] [-] [filenames]
```
Reading files: The most common use of __cat__ is to read the contents of files. 
Syntax:
```
cat file1 
```
The standard output [i.e., the default destination of the output] for cat is the monitor screen. However, it can be *redirected* from the screen, for example, to another file, to be written to that file, or to another command, to be used as an input for that command. The standard output of cat is redirected using the *output redirection operator* to another file:
```
cat file1 > file2
```
i.e., the output from cat is written to file2 instead of being displayed on the monitor. 

```
cat file1 file2 file3 ... filen
```
This concatenates copies of the specified files and displayed to standard output. 

```
cat file1 file2 ... filen > filek
```
The concatenated output is redirected and written into file k. 

clear  
head  
tail  
od  
strings  
grep  
kill  
jobs  
top  
ps  

# Project Talk #
