# Building Libraries #

# Useful Commands #
__touch__: The touch command is the easiest way to create new, empty files. It is also used to change the *timestamps* [i.e., the date and time of the most recent access and modification] on existing files and directories. 
Syntax:
```
touch [options] <filename(s)>
```

__<Command 1> && <Command 2>__: shell executes first command, if it returns successful [0] exit code, executes second command
E.G. make && ./memgrind

__ls__: Command that lists directory contents of files and directories.    

__ls -l__: List with long format - shows permissions, etc.    

__chmod__: [change mode] To change access permissions.     

__man__: An interface to the online reference manuals. 
Syntax: 
```
man <command>
```
Returns information on what the command does, how to use it, et al.

__chown__: Change the file owner and group. 

__more__: Filter for paging through text one screenful at a time. 
Syntax:
```
more [options] <filename>
```

__less__: opposite of __more__. Allows backward movement in the file as well as forward movement. Also, less does not have to read the entire input file before starting, so with large input files it starts up faster than text editors like vi. 

__cat__: Has three related functions with respect to text files - displaying them, combining copies of them, and creating new ones. 
Syntax:
```
cat [options] [filenames] [-] [filenames]
```
Reading files: The most common use of __cat__ is to read the contents of files. 
Syntax:
```
cat file1 
```
The standard output [i.e., the default destination of the output] for cat is the monitor screen. However, it can be *redirected* from the screen, for example, to another file, to be written to that file, or to another command, to be used as an input for that command. The standard output of cat is redirected using the *output redirection operator* to another file:
```
cat file1 > file2
```
i.e., the output from cat is written to file2 instead of being displayed on the monitor. 

```
cat file1 file2 file3 ... filen
```
This concatenates copies of the specified files and displayed to standard output. 

```
cat file1 file2 ... filen > filek
```
The concatenated output is redirected and written into file k. 

__clear__: Clears the terminal screen.   

__head__: Reads the first few lines of text given as an input and writes them for standard output. 
Syntax
```
head [options] [file(s)]
```
Returns the first 10 lines from each file. If one desires to obtain a number of lines apart from the default ten, then the following syntax can be used: 
```
head -n<integer> [filename(s)]
```
__tail__: Similar to __head__, except it returns the __LAST__ ten [default] lines of specified files.  

__od__: Command for displaying data in various human-readable output formats. The name is an acronym for *octal dump* since it defaults to printing in the octal data format.   

__strings__: Returns each string of printable characters in files. Its main use is to determine the contents of and extract text from binary files. 
Syntax:
```
strings [options] filename(s)
```

__grep__: Stands for *global regular expression print*. Processes text line by line and prints any lines that match a specified pattern. 
Syntax: 
```
grep [options] pattern [filename(s)] 
```

__kill__: Used to terminate processes without having to log out or reboot the computer. 
Syntax: 
```
kill [signal or option] pid(s)
```

__jobs__: Lists the status of all running jobs. 
Syntax: 
```
jobs [-lnprs] [jobspec(s)]
```

__top__: Provides a dynamic, real-time view of a running system. Displays system summary information, as well as a list of processes and threads currently being managed by the kernel. The types of system summary information shown and the types, order and size of information displayed for tasks are all user-configurable. 
Syntax: 
```
top -hv | -bcHisS -d delay -n limit -u|U user | -p pid -w [cols]
```

__ps__: i.e., *process status*. Provides information about the currently running processes, including their pid's. 
Syntax: 
```
ps [options]
```

# Project Talk #
